---
layout: post
title: React
---

## What is React?

React (React.js or ReactJS) is a JavaScript library used for building fast and interactive user interfaces. It was first created by Jordan Walke, a software engineer working for Facebook. React first deployed on Facebook's newsfeed in 2011 and on Instagram in 2012.

It allows developers to create large web applications that can change data, without reloading the page. It is one of the most popular, if not the most popular, framework for front end development as lots of large companies use it. 


## What is state?

State is the representation of a system (ex - DOM) in a given time. It refers to the data stored in the form of strings, arrays, objects, etc. With most websites and applications, these are going to change. React helps make it so that the page doesn't have to refresh every time a change occurs. It does this by using functional and class components.


## Difference between a functional component and a class component

#### Functional Components

Just like in their names, the main difference is the syntax. Functional components are pretty much a plain JavaScript function. Functional components can accept and use props. They might be referred to as "dumb" or "stateless" components because they simply accept data and display them. They're mainly responsible for rendering UI.

#### Class Components

A class component is a JavaScript class that extends `React.Component` which has a redner method. They are sometiems called "smart" or "stateful" components because they tend to implement logic and state.

## What is JSX?
JSX is a syntax extension to JavaScript. Basically, you can write HTML like code in the same file as you write JavaScript. This helps with modifying the DOM. Using JSX to update a DOM leads to significant site performance improvements and development efficiency.


## What does it mean to "lift state up"?

According to [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html#:~:text=In%20React%2C%20sharing%20state%20is,it%20into%20the%20Calculator%20instead.), "sharing state is accomplished by moving it up to the closest common ancestor of the components that need it." So, by Lifting up the state we make the state of the parent component as a single source of truth and pass the data of the parent in its children. With the shared sate, changes in state reflect in relevant components simultaneously.