---
layout: post
title: Svelte
---

Here are some of the thigns that stood out to me after watching the video [Rich Harris - Rethinking reactivity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AdNJ3fydeao&feature=emb_title&ab_channel=YouGottaLoveFrontend):

### Leaner, Faster Code

One thing that stood out to me was how much code there was when using Svelte compared to other frameworks like React. He mentioned that React components tend to be 40% larger than Svelte. That's pretty significant. Svelte also doesn't rerun all the code looking for what has changed like React. It simply looks at that specific change and updates that change only. This speeds things up tremendously. He proved this with multiple examples that showed the power and speed of Svelte. 

### Accessibility

Another thing that stood out was their commitment to accessibility on the web. Most developers don't have disabilities so they don't know what trying to acess the web with one is like. Accessibility kind of just goes over our head when we code sometimes. Svelte takes that into account and provides error messages when you don't include certain accessibility features. This is one of their goals: make web development accessible without sacrificing power and I think that is something that is super important.

### Compiler Benefits

The last thing that stood out to me was the benefits of Svelte being a compiler. Because it's a compiler, it doesn't have some of the constraints that some of the other frameworks have. If you're not using a particular feature (transitions which are cool how those work, bindings, etc.) then you don't need to include the code that makes that feature possible. This means you as a developer are always going to get the minimal subset of the framework's features. This in turn makes for smaller file sizes and again, helps with speed which are both very important. 