---
layout: post
title: NPM
---

### What is NPM?

NPM stands for Node Package Manager and it is the world's largest software registry as well as a command line tool. According to the [NPM website](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm) it has many uses:
- Adapt packages of code for your apps, or incorporate packages as they are
- Download standalone tools you can use right away
- Share code with any npm user, anywhere
- Manage multiple versions of code and code dependencies
- Update applications easily when underlying code is updated
- Discover multiple ways to solve similar problems as other developers

NPM in general makes coding easier for developers. There are lots of helpful pieces of code and packages that perform certain tasks or solve problems. 

### What is a NPM module?

Accoring to the official website, "A NPM module is any file or directory in the `node_modules` directory that can be loaded by the Node.js `require()` function." This is different from a package which is one or modules (libraries) grouped together.


### What are the 3 components of NPM and why are they important?

- **The website:** is used to discover packages, set up profiles, and manage other aspects of the NPM experience
- **The Command Line Interface (CLI):** runs from a terminal and is how most developer interact with NPM
- **The Registry:** is a large public database of JavaScript software and the meta-information surrounding it.

These components are essentially how a developer uses and interacts with NPM. If you want to start implementing NPM, you are going to have to learn how to use/maneuver through these components. Their website provides great documentation on how to do that! [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/)